before you begin the facial massage
knowledge of the neuromuscular anatomy
is essential the buccinator compresses
the cheeks and expels air between the
lips the corrugator draws the eyebrows
down and in causing frowning the
depressor anguli oris pulls the angle of
the mouth downward the epic rainiest
frontalis raises the eyebrows and causes
the forehead to wrinkled the mentalis
raises and protrudes the lower lip
causing the chin to wrinkle the oba
culeros oculi closes the eyelids and
tightens the skin of the forehead the
oba Calera Saurus compresses contracts
puckers and wrinkles the lips the
platysma depresses the lower jaw and
lifts drawing the angle of the mouth
downward it also tightens and wrinkles
the skin of the neck the pro Souris
wrinkles the skin across the bridge of
the nose the quadratus lay by inferior
is pulls the lower lip downward and a
little to one side the quadratus lay by
superioris raises the upper lip and
dilates the nostrils the Rosario's pulls
the angle of the mouth out and back as
in smiling the zygomaticus raises the
lip as in laughing knowledge of all of
these muscles is important for you to
administer an effective massage facial
massage is one of the ancient methods of
healing the ancient cultures of China
Egypt Greece Rome and India utilized
massage as a form of therapeutic
medicine a properly administered facial
massage deliver is much more than just
relaxation
facial massage stimulates circulation
detoxifies stimulates sebaceous
production relaxes the nerves releases
toxins trapped between the tissues and
muscles oxygenates the skin tissues
gives physiological and psychological
benefits aids in the extraction process
hydrates the surface layer of the skin
brings nutrients to the surface layer of
the skin increases lymphatic flow and
eases muscle tension the triple firming
treatment cream is applied using F the
rush movements again this is light
gentle stroking try to open the pouch
and squeeze the contents into your palm
then warm the cream with both hands and
apply to decollete neck cheeks and
forehead
petrissage is a compression technique
which includes kneading squeezing and
pinching this affect the deeper muscle
tissues of the face
TACA mint is a percussive stroke in
which fingertips strike the skin in
rapid succession this technique improves
the circulation by stimulating the
fusion of the capillary network tockman
helps nourish the skin by releasing
nutrients this technique also purifies
the system releasing carbon dioxide and
other waste materials
the name shiatsu means finger pressure
and this pressure stimulates the muscles
and relieves tension
and the massage at the temples now the
massage portion of the treatment is
complete